The poisonous principles contained in the plants described
in the following pages are now known to exist even under
cultivation, although cultivation may modify their virulence;
and exposure, also, to the influence of heat, acids, or antiseptics, would seem in many cases to render the toxin inert. Sea-water, or the iodine contained in it, appears to be
incompatible to vegetable toxins ; and it is an interesting andsignificant fact that iodine, besides being antagonistic to very
many, of the alkaloids, will destroy most Micro-Fungi andthose of the Bacteria which cause infectious disease. Among Micro-Fungi the Pyrenomycetes, Carpomycetes, andOomycetes need a living host, which they have the power of selecting—i.e., Puccinia graminis selects Wheat and Barbery,
while P. coronata prefers Grass and Buckthorn. Pencillium
and Aspergillus, however, will thrive equally on living or deadorganic food-material.
The virulence of the microscopic plant causing Glanders{Bacillacece) is increased when grafted from the horse to man,just as the mistletoe-plant thrives best when artificially
grafted from one species of tree to another.
Again; since all Bacteria have come from a commonancestor, we assume certain ultra-microscopic forms whichhave become acclimatised to mankind; and we must, for thepresent, suppose these forms to be m the nature of a ferment,
or enzyme, produced by the Bacterium.
The affection known as Dengue is caused by one or more of these ultra-microscopic ferments. Pellagra will ultimately
prove to be due to vitamin deficiency, and not to the fungusPencillium glaucum. Sprue, on the other hand, is almost
VUl INTRODUCTION
certainly caused by one of the yeast fungi {Monilia psilosis ?), but the causation of animal malignant growths is still far to seek. Further research, however, into the life-history of thetwelve "wild yeasts" known to inhabit the human intestinaltract, should lead to incidental, if not definite, results. It has been found impracticable to arrange the species in botanical order according to their poisonous effects ; although,no doubt, as we learn more, we shall be able to classify themmore approximately.
Such of the Micro-Fungi and Bacteria as are known to behurtful are here noticed under the head of Specific Irritants;
and the treatment suitable to each case of poisoning must beadopted. In the treatment of poisoning by the larger plants,
however, our remedies include
:
Antidotes
Diluents (wash out the stomach with plenty of warm water).
Emetics (especially Mustard).
Tannin

i.e., strong Coffee or Tea.
Iodine.—Dilute Solution. For Opium poisoning.
Digitalis.—Tinct. B.P. Rxx. hypoderm. ForAconite poisoning.
Pilocarpine.—Nit. gr. J. hypoderm. In poisoning by Deliriants. Alcohol; or Strong Ammonia to nostrils. Strychnine.—Sol. B.P. Tl\ii. hjrpoderm.
Atropine.—Gr. J. hypoderm.
Faradic Current. Oxygen Inhalation.
Artificial Respiration.
poisoning
Stimulants
Opium.—In
Irritants. Sedatives ^ Chloroform Inhalation.
Chloral. Pot. Brom.
Purgatives (Castor Oil). Demulcents (Sweet Oil; Raw Eggs).
Rest and Warmth.